README.md, before:

# github-metrics

## About

A script for getting your team PRs metrics.

## Running

The run command takes the following arguments:

`--metric`: The reference for the metric you'd like to calculate

`--start-date`: The metric start date. Date in format YYYY-mm-dd

`--end-date`: The metric cutoff date. Date in format YYYY-mm-dd

`--exclude-authors`: Will exclude all PRs created by the listed authors. This argument must list usernames separated by a comma. Example: `--exclude_authors=pantoja,github_username,other_username`

`--include-hotfixes`: Will include all hotfixes in the metric calculation. By default, this value is false.

#### [Time To Merge](#ttm)
`github_metrics --metric=ttm --start_date=2021-03-22 --end_date=2021-03-24`

#### [Time to Review](#ttr)
`github_metrics --metric=ttr --start_date=2020-11-10 --end_date=2020-11-18`

#### [Merge Rate](#mr)
`github_metrics --metric=mr --start_date=2021-03-22 --end_date=2021-03-24`

#### [Pull Request Size](#pr-size)
`github_metrics --metric=pr_size --start_date=2020-11-10 --end_date=2020-11-18`

## Metrics available
- <b id="ttm">Time To Merge (ttm):</b>
The Time to Merge metric calculates time between the first commit of a given branch, and the merge action of it's pull request.

- <b id="ttr">Time To Review (ttr):</b>
It calculates the time a PR waited for, or has been waiting for the first review since the PR opened.

- <b id="mr">Merge Rate (mr):</b>
It measures the total number of merged pull requests to the total number of developers active in this time period (number of merged PRS / dev). A value closer to 1 indicates that each developer is merging a PR. a higher number indicates more merged PRs than devs, and vice versa.

- <b id="pr-size">Pull Request Size (pr_size):</b>
It generates metrics related to the number of lines added and deleted in a PR. The output will generate metrics related to the sum of different lines in a pr (lines added + lines deleted), and the addition rate metric (lines addes / lines deleted). In the latter case, a higher the rate number means more lines are being added than deleted.

## Project setup

### Dependencies setup
1. Create a virtual enviroment `virtualenv venv`
2. Install dependencies with `pip install --editable .`

### Project variables setup
1. Create a .env file by copying from .env.example with `cp .env.example .env`
2.  Fill settings variables:

`REPOSITORY_NAME`: The repository name of the project of your choice 

`ORG_NAME`: The name of the organization where the repository is located

`GITHUB_LOGIN`: Your github account login

`GITHUB_TOKEN`: An access token generated with your github account.  More information accessible through [this guide](https://docs.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/creating-a-personal-access-token). The lib requires full repo access for it to work

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/38823219/117503308-27d1ab80-af57-11eb-845c-a8640cfe023d.png)

Commit message:

Adds metric to count hotfixes

README.md, after:

# github-metrics

## About

A script for getting your team PRs metrics.

## Running

The run command takes the following arguments:

`--metric`: The reference for the metric you'd like to calculate

`--start-date`: The metric start date. Date in format YYYY-mm-dd

`--end-date`: The metric cutoff date. Date in format YYYY-mm-dd

`--exclude-authors`: Will exclude all PRs created by the listed authors. This argument must list usernames separated by a comma. Example: `--exclude_authors=pantoja,github_username,other_username`

`--include-hotfixes`: Will include all hotfixes in the metric calculation. By default, this value is false.

#### [Time To Merge](#ttm)
`github_metrics --metric=ttm --start_date=2021-03-22 --end_date=2021-03-24`

#### [Time to Review](#ttr)
`github_metrics --metric=ttr --start_date=2020-11-10 --end_date=2020-11-18`

#### [Merge Rate](#mr)
`github_metrics --metric=mr --start_date=2021-03-22 --end_date=2021-03-24`

#### [Pull Request Size](#pr-size)
`github_metrics --metric=pr_size --start_date=2020-11-10 --end_date=2020-11-18`

#### [Hotfixes count](#hotfixes-count)
`python run.py metric=pr_size start_date=2020-11-10 end_date=2020-11-18`

## Metrics available
- <b id="ttm">Time To Merge (ttm):</b>
The Time to Merge metric calculates time between the first commit of a given branch, and the merge action of it's pull request.

- <b id="ttr">Time To Review (ttr):</b>
It calculates the time a PR waited for, or has been waiting for the first review since the PR opened.

- <b id="mr">Merge Rate (mr):</b>
It measures the total number of merged pull requests to the total number of developers active in this time period (number of merged PRS / dev). A value closer to 1 indicates that each developer is merging a PR. a higher number indicates more merged PRs than devs, and vice versa.

- <b id="pr-size">Pull Request Size (pr_size):</b>
It generates metrics related to the number of lines added and deleted in a PR. The output will generate metrics related to the sum of different lines in a pr (lines added + lines deleted), and the addition rate metric (lines addes / lines deleted). In the latter case, a higher the rate number means more lines are being added than deleted.

- <b id="hotfixescount">Hotfixes count (hotfixes_count):</b>
The number of hotfixes in the period.

## Project setup

### Dependencies setup
1. Create a virtual enviroment `virtualenv venv`
2. Install dependencies with `pip install --editable .`

### Project variables setup
1. Create a .env file by copying from .env.example with `cp .env.example .env`
2.  Fill settings variables:

`REPOSITORY_NAME`: The repository name of the project of your choice 

`ORG_NAME`: The name of the organization where the repository is located

`GITHUB_LOGIN`: Your github account login

`GITHUB_TOKEN`: An access token generated with your github account.  More information accessible through [this guide](https://docs.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/creating-a-personal-access-token). The lib requires full repo access for it to work

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/38823219/117503308-27d1ab80-af57-11eb-845c-a8640cfe023d.png)
